---
title:  "Welcome!"
thumbnail: "web.jpg"
description: "What it's all about."
---

G'day! I reckon a good writer is like Leonardo Dicaprio's character in Inception. If you've seen the 2010 classic, then think of that; if you haven't, then this analogy will probably fall flat (so maybe think of Jack the Giant slayer, the 2013 box-office flop instead). Anyway, Inception—it's all about going into someone’s subconscious to plant an idea. The aim is to plant the idea so deeply that their target has no idea how it got there.

<p><q class="decoration">Cobb: "Once an idea has taken hold of the brain it's almost impossible to eradicate.</q>As communicators of any sort, even though our target audience is wide awake (I hope!), our goal is much the same–we want to leave an idea. When words get in the way, we haven't done our job.</p>

In case I haven't made it obvious already, I’m a huge advocate of the plain English movement. But having moved around and dabbling a bit in everything has also taught me a philosophy that crosses disciplines. Regardless of what industry you're in or what sort of work you're doing, clear communication is vital. A good developer knows that readability is just as important for long-term success as getting the job done. And, honestly, the same goes for communicating in any language.

I've moved around a fair bit and enjoyed working in different areas. At the moment, I'm seriously passionate about data and how we it can be transformed into something useful. Having worked at online businesses, startups and web consultancies for around a decade, I'm still heavily into web design and development. If you think our passions align and you're interested in working with me, then don't hesitate to <a href="/contact">get in touch</a>.
