---
title:  "SlateJS"
thumbnail: "slate.jpg"
description: "For when you need to build an online text editor."
---

I'm working on a project that allows users to save their writing to the cloud. This goes beyond just a simple `textarea`, but isn't quite as sophisticated as google docs or the like. The interface for writing text needs to be minimal, intuitive and fun to use.

As you do, I went searching for libraries that might help with this task. Oh, and I should mention that the site is built in Node, Typescript and Angular, so I was preferably looking for a library that would provide a component that could be easily dropped into my existing project. After a bit of browsing around, I landed on Quill. If you haven't used Quill, it's a great library that gives you a usable text editor in next to no time. And I was pretty happy for a while. But, as with so many libraries, everything was great until I tried to stretch it beyond its most common use cases. And it snapped.

For my purposes, I need a way to allow individual units of text to be saved as separate documents into a MongoDB store. Sure, I could save a whole document as one artifact, but then I'd lose some flexilibity around treating each excerpt as its own unit. Quill put up a fight--it just isn't geared around the idea of customising your own block and inline formats in any sophisticated way.

And so, I went on the hunt again. I thought that my original search for Quill had been pretty exhaustive, but I'm happy to say it wasn't and I eventually stumbled upon Slate. Slate's a React-first library, but someone has kindly made an Angular wrapper for it. Slate promises to be everything that similar libraries aren't--flexible, extensible, more cohesive and so on.

At first glance, I've got to be honest, it appeared to be flexibility at the expense of simplicity (another pitfall of certain libraries). The most basic editor with any sort of functionality requires a confounding amount of code. The idea being that Slate is so flexible that they aren't prescriptive about how it should be used. This is taken to the extreme, and there is no basic functionality, just a bunch of demos that you can copy to snap together a basic editor. I would recommend in future that they provide some of that functionality out of the box.

The basic example sees you adding block level components (like headings, quotes and lists) by adding inline templates and looking them up by their name via a massive switch statement. Very hardcoded. But, if you dive deeply enough into the codebase, you'll discover that their `BaseElementComponent` can be extended, and if you want ultimate flexibility, you can provide a list of these components via dependency injection so that you're no longer hardcoding a set of formats.

Honestly, once I got the hang of its paradigm and the element model, I was relieved to discover that Slate's promise of flexibility was true. And Slate is a very powerful library. By decorating its editor with extra javascript functions, you can add new features and extend its base functionality. I've even been able to add a floating formatting toolbar much like the one that is used for editing medium articles. So I'm definitely keeping an eye on this library and earmarking it for future use.
